Using `scope` Parameter to Request VCs (#44)
openid/OpenID4VP: openid-4-verifiable-presentations-1_0.md

## Using `scope` Parameter to Request Verifiable Credential(s) {#request_scope}

Wallets MAY support requesting presentation of Verifiable Credentials using OAuth 2.0 `scope` values.

> In the case where all the Input Descriptors defined within the Presentation Definition are required within the request, the value contained in the scope parameter MUST match to the Presentation Definition id value. In the case where only a subset of Verifiable Credentials is required, each value contained in the scope parameter MUST match to one Input Descriptor(s) `id` value, as defined within the Presentation Definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case where all the Input Descriptors defined within the Presentation Definition are required within the request, the value contained in the `scope` parameter MUST match to the Presentation Definition `id` value. In the case where only a subset of Verifiable Credentials is required, each value contained in the `scope` parameter MUST match to one Input Descriptor(s) `id` value, as defined within the Presentation Definition.
```

> In the case where all the Input Descriptors defined within the Presentation Definition are required within the request, the value contained in the scope parameter MUST match to the Presentation Definition id value. In the case where only a subset of Verifiable Credentials is required, each value contained in the scope parameter MUST match to one Input Descriptor(s) `id` value, as defined within the Presentation Definition.

Reviewer: I think I originally suggested adding both options: using presentation definition and input descriptor ids, but thinking about it I am not sure about this optionality. feature-wise, input descriptor level id might be enough, assuming that when submission requirements feature is used, both parties know how to map `submission_requirements` to the input descriptor ids (this should probably be made explicit if we go this route.)

Author: that's what I have in mind:

when the verifier requests all the input descriptors defined within its presentation definition (or the one within a common trust framework/assurance profile) the `scope` value must then contain the PE `id`.

when the verifier requests specific input descriptors, then the `scope` values must contain the required input descriptors `id`s separated by space.

> Since the values contained in the `scope` parameter are expressed as a list of space-delimited and case-sensitive strings, according to [@RFC6749], the Verifier that supports the `scope` parameter to request Verifiable Credential(s) MUST NOT include spaces in the Input Descriptors `id` values intended to be used within the `scope` parameter. It is then RECOMMENDED to use collision-resistant scopes values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the values contained in the `scope` parameter are expressed as a list of space-delimited and case-sensitive strings as defined in [@RFC6749], `id` values of the Input Descriptors and Presentation Definitions used as the `scope` parameter to request Verifiable Credential(s) MUST NOT include spaces. 

It is RECOMMENDED to use collision-resistant `scope` values.
```
if verifier supports `scope` parameter to request VCs, any input descriptor `id` can be used as a scope, no?

> It also required that the Presentation Definition id value MUST be different to the ones defined for the Input Descriptors defined within it.

Author: ```suggestion
It is also required that the Presentation Definition `id` value MUST be different to the ones defined for the Input Descriptors defined within it.
```

> The Verifier that intends to use this feature MUST publish its Presentation Definition within its metadata, using the parameter name `presentation_definition`.

Reviewer: why MUST? I think it is possible that wallet and the verifier agree on the scope values out of band?

Author: I agree

Author: Done here baf2dd46ac16a0337c653040a27aeb8efde0c331

## Using `scope` Parameter to Request Verifiable Credential(s) {#request_scope}

Wallets MAY support requesting presentation of Verifiable Credentials using OAuth 2.0 `scope` values.

> In the case where all the Input Descriptors defined within the Presentation Definition are required within the request, the value contained in the `scope` parameter MUST match to the Presentation Definition `id` value. In the case where only a subset of Verifiable Credentials is required, each value contained in the `scope` parameter MUST match to one Input Descriptor(s) `id` value, as defined within the Presentation Definition.

Reviewer 2: Which presentation definition does this text refer to? Same for input descriptors.
